

Henderson
Harwood-Bellis
Gvardiol
Gabriel
M.Salah
Winks
Diogo J.
Gordon
Watkins
Haaland
João Pedro


Flekken
Sangaré
Quansah
Barco


Squad Size
To join the game select a fantasy football squad of 15 players, consisting of:

2 Goalkeepers
5 Defenders
5 Midfielders
3 Forwards
Budget
The total value of your initial squad must not exceed £100 million.

Players Per Team
You can select up to 3 players from a single Premier League team.

Choosing Your Starting 11
From your 15 player squad, select 11 players by the Gameweek deadline to form your team.

All your points for the Gameweek will be scored by these 11 players, however if one or more doesn't play they may be automatically substituted.

Your team can play in any formation providing that 1 goalkeeper, at least 3 defenders and at least 1 forward are selected at all times.

Selecting a Captain and a Vice-Captain
From your starting 11 you nominate a captain and a vice-captain. Your captain's score will be doubled.

If your captain plays 0 minutes in the Gameweek, the captain will be changed to the vice-captain.

If both captain and vice-captain play 0 minutes in a Gameweek, then no player's score will be doubled.

Prioritising Your Bench For Automatic Substitutions
Your substitutes provide cover for unforeseen events like injuries and postponements by automatically replacing starting players who don't play in a Gameweek.

Playing in a Gameweek means playing at least 1 minute or receiving a yellow / red card.

Based on the priorities you assign, automatic substitutions are processed at the end of the Gameweek as follows:

If your Goalkeeper doesn't play in the Gameweek, he will be substituted by your replacement Goalkeeper, if he played in the Gameweek.
If any of your outfield players don't play in the Gameweek, they will be substituted by the highest priority outfield substitute who played in the Gameweek and doesn't break the formation rules (eg. If your starting team has 3 defenders, a defender can only be replaced by another defender).

After selecting your squad you can buy and sell players in the transfer market. Unlimited transfers can be made at no cost until your first deadline.

After your first deadline you will receive 1 free transfer each Gameweek. Each additional transfer you make in the same Gameweek will deduct 4 points from your total score (Classic scoring) and match score (Head-to-Head scoring) at the start of the next Gameweek.

If you do not use your free transfer, you are able to make an additional free transfer the following Gameweek. If you do not use this saved free transfer in the following Gameweek, it will be carried over until you do. The maximum number of free transfers you can store in any gameweek is 5.

At other times you are limited to 20 transfers in any single Gameweek. This rule does not apply when playing a Wildcard or a Free Hit Chip.

Wildcards
For information on wildcards please refer to the chips section of the rules.

Player Prices
Player prices change during the season dependent on the popularity of the player in the transfer market. Player prices do not change until the season starts.

The price shown on your transfers page is a player's selling price. This selling price may be less than the player's current purchase price as a sell-on fee of 50% (rounded up to the nearest £0.1m) will be applied on any profits made on that player.

Chips can be used to potentially enhance your team's performance during the season.

Only one chip can be played in a single Gameweek. The chips available are as follows:

Name	Effect
Bench Boost	The points scored by your bench players in the next Gameweek are included in your total.
Free Hit	Make unlimited free transfers for a single Gameweek. At the next deadline your squad is returned to how it was at the start of the Gameweek.
Triple Captain	Your captain points are tripled instead of doubled in the next Gameweek.
Wildcard	All transfers (including those already made) in the Gameweek are free of charge.
Mystery Chip	The Mystery Chip will be playable from January 2025.
The Bench Boost and Triple Captain chips can each be used once a season and are played when saving your team on the my team page. They can be cancelled at anytime before the Gameweek deadline.

The Free Hit chip can be used once a season, is played when confirming your transfers and can't be cancelled after confirmed.

The Wildcard chip can be used twice a season. The first wildcard will be available from the start of the season until Sun 29 Dec 14:30. The second wildcard will be available after Sun 29 Dec 14:30 in readiness for the January transfer window opening and remain available until the end of the season. The Wildcard chip is played when confirming transfers and can't be cancelled once played.

Please note that when playing either a Wildcard or your Free Hit chip, any saved free transfers are maintained for the following Gameweek. If you had 2 saved free transfers, you will still have 2 saved free transfers the Gameweek after playing the chip.

All changes to your team (starting 11, transfers, captain changes, substitiution priorities) must be made by the Gameweek deadline in order to take effect for that set of matches.

Deadlines are subject to change and will be 90 minutes before the kick-off time in the first match of the Gameweek.

Gameweek	Deadline
Gameweek 1	Fri 16 Aug 19:30
Gameweek 2	Sat 24 Aug 12:00
Gameweek 3	Sat 31 Aug 12:00
Gameweek 4	Sat 14 Sep 12:00
Gameweek 5	Sat 21 Sep 12:00
Gameweek 6	Sat 28 Sep 12:00
Gameweek 7	Sat 5 Oct 12:00
Gameweek 8	Sat 19 Oct 12:00
Gameweek 9	Fri 25 Oct 19:30
Gameweek 10	Sat 2 Nov 12:00
Gameweek 11	Sat 9 Nov 14:30
Gameweek 12	Sat 23 Nov 12:00
Gameweek 13	Fri 29 Nov 19:30
Gameweek 14	Tue 3 Dec 19:15
Gameweek 15	Sat 7 Dec 14:30
Gameweek 16	Sat 14 Dec 14:30
Gameweek 17	Sat 21 Dec 14:30
Gameweek 18	Thu 26 Dec 14:30
Gameweek 19	Sun 29 Dec 14:30
Gameweek 20	Sat 4 Jan 14:30
Gameweek 21	Tue 14 Jan 19:15
Gameweek 22	Sat 18 Jan 14:30
Gameweek 23	Sat 25 Jan 14:30
Gameweek 24	Sat 1 Feb 14:30
Gameweek 25	Sat 15 Feb 14:30
Gameweek 26	Sat 22 Feb 14:30
Gameweek 27	Tue 25 Feb 19:15
Gameweek 28	Sat 8 Mar 14:30
Gameweek 29	Sat 15 Mar 14:30
Gameweek 30	Tue 1 Apr 19:15
Gameweek 31	Sat 5 Apr 14:30
Gameweek 32	Sat 12 Apr 14:30
Gameweek 33	Sat 19 Apr 14:30
Gameweek 34	Sat 26 Apr 14:30
Gameweek 35	Sat 3 May 14:30
Gameweek 36	Sat 10 May 14:30
Gameweek 37	Sun 18 May 14:30
Gameweek 38	Sun 25 May 15:30

During the season, your fantasy football players will be allocated points based on their performance in the Premier League.

Action	Points
For playing up to 60 minutes	1
For playing 60 minutes or more (excluding stoppage time)	2
For each goal scored by a goalkeeper	10
For each goal scored by a defender	6
For each goal scored by a midfielder	5
For each goal scored by a forward	4
For each goal assist	3
For a clean sheet by a goalkeeper or defender	4
For a clean sheet by a midfielder	1
For every 3 shot saves by a goalkeeper	1
For each penalty save	5
For each penalty miss	-2
Bonus points for the best players in a match	1-3
For every 2 goals conceded by a goalkeeper or defender	-1
For each yellow card	-1
For each red card	-3
For each own goal	-2
Clean sheets
A clean sheet is awarded for not conceding a goal whilst on the pitch and playing at least 60 minutes (excluding stoppage time).

If a player has been substituted when a goal is conceded this will not affect any clean sheet bonus.

Red Cards
If a player receives a red card, they will continue to be penalised for goals conceded by their team.

Red card deductions include any points deducted for yellow cards.

Assists
Fantasy assists are awarded to the player from the goal scoring team who last touches the ball before their teammate who scores the goal. The final touch can be an intentional pass, an inadvertent touch, or the result of an effort on goal.

If an opposing player deflects the ball after the final pass before a goal is scored, significantly altering the intended destination of the ball, then no assist in Fantasy is awarded. Should an unforced defensive error lead to the goalscoring opportunity, then no Fantasy assist will be awarded. If the goal scorer loses and then regains possession, then no assist is awarded.

Rebounds
If a shot at goal is blocked by an opposition player, saved by a goalkeeper, or hits the woodwork, and from the rebound a goal is scored, then a Fantasy assist is awarded. The shot does not have to be on target to result in a Fantasy assist. The action leading to the rebound can be a shot or a cross-shot, but not an intended cross or pass attempt, as determined by Stats Perform.

If a significant touch is made by an opposition player after the blocked effort, then no Fantasy assist is awarded.

Own Goals
If a player shoots or passes the ball and directly forces an opposing player to put the ball in their own net, then an assist is awarded. If the pass or cross takes a significant deflection off an opposition player prior to their teammate scoring an own goal, then no Fantasy assist is awarded.

Penalties and Free-Kicks
In the event of a penalty or free-kick being scored, the player earning the penalty or free-kick is awarded a Fantasy assist. However, if the goal is scored by the player who earned the penalty or free-kick, then no Fantasy assist is awarded.

Finalising Assists
For the avoidance of doubt, points awarded in-game are subject to change up until one hour after the final whistle of the last match of the Gameweek. Once the points have all been updated on that day, no further adjustments to points will be made unless under extraordinary circumstances.

The final decision on Fantasy assists is made by Fantasy Premier League in consultation with Stats Perform.

Bonus Points
The Bonus Points System (BPS) utilises a range of statistics to create a BPS score for every player. The three best performing players in each match will be awarded bonus points. 3 points will be awarded to the highest scoring player, 2 to the second best and 1 to the third.

Examples of how bonus point ties will be resolved are as follows:

If there is a tie for first place, Players 1 & 2 will receive 3 points each and Player 3 will receive 1 point.
If there is a tie for second place, Player 1 will receive 3 points and Players 2 and 3 will receive 2 points each.
If there is a tie for third place, Player 1 will receive 3 points, Player 2 will receive 2 points and Players 3 & 4 will receive 1 point each.
How is the BPS score calculated?
Players score BPS points based on the following statistics (one point for each unless otherwise stated):

Action	BPS
Playing 1 to 60 minutes	3
Playing over 60 minutes	6
Goalkeepers and defenders scoring a goal	12
Midfielders scoring a goal	18
Forwards scoring a goal	24
Assists	9
Goalkeepers and defenders keeping a clean sheet	12
Saving a penalty	9
Save	2
Successful open play cross	1
Creating a big chance (a chance where the receiving player should score)	3
For every 2 clearances, blocks and interceptions (total)	1
For every 3 recoveries	1
Key pass	1
Successful tackle (net*)	2
Successful dribble	1
Scoring the goal that wins a match	3
Goal line clearance	3
Foul won	1
Shot on target	2
70 to 79% pass completion (at least 30 passes attempted)	2
80 to 89% pass completion (at least 30 passes attempted)	4
90%+ pass completion (at least 30 passes attempted)	6
Goalkeepers and defenders conceding a goal	-4
Conceding a penalty	-3
Missing a penalty	-6
Yellow card	-3
Red card	-9
Own goal	-6
Missing a big chance	-3
Making an error which leads to a goal	-3
Making an error which leads to an attempt at goal	-1
Being tackled	-1
Conceding a foul	-1
Being caught offside	-1
Shot off target	-1
*Net successful tackles is the total of all successful tackles minus any unsuccessful tackles. Players will not be awarded negative BPS points for this statistic.

Data is supplied by Opta and will not be changed after the last day of the Gameweek has been marked as final. We will not enter into discussion around any of the statistics used to calculate this score for any individual match.

After entering your squad, you can join and create leagues to compete with friends and other game players.

League Types
Invitational Leagues & Cups
Invitational leagues & cups are the heart and soul of the game, where you compete against your friends. Just create a league and then send out the unique code to allow your friends to join, easy! A cup will be automatically created as part of the league.

You can compete in up to 30 private leagues. There's no limit on the number of teams in a single league.

Public Leagues
Need an extra challenge? Then join a public league of randomly assigned teams. You can compete in up to 5 public leagues.

Global Leagues
You are automatically entered into the following global leagues:

The overall league featuring all registered teams
A league for fellow managers from your country
A league for supporters of your favourite Premier League team
A league for managers starting the same Gameweek as you
The Second Chance League (starts in Gameweek 21)
The Fantasy Cup
Existing teams will automatically enter the Second Chance League and the Fantasy Cup without having to register a new account.

League Scoring
All leagues score on either a Classic or Head-to-Head basis.

Classic Scoring
In a league with classic scoring, teams are ranked based on their total points in the game. You can join or leave a league with classic scoring at any point during the season.

In the event of a tie between teams, the team who has made the least amount of transfers will be positioned higher. Any transfers made using a wildcard or free hit will not count towards total transfers made.

Classic scoring leagues are run over a number of phases:

Phase	First Gameweek	Last Gameweek
Overall	Gameweek 1	Gameweek 38
August	Gameweek 1	Gameweek 3
September	Gameweek 4	Gameweek 6
October	Gameweek 7	Gameweek 9
November	Gameweek 10	Gameweek 13
December	Gameweek 14	Gameweek 19
January	Gameweek 20	Gameweek 23
February	Gameweek 24	Gameweek 27
March	Gameweek 28	Gameweek 29
April	Gameweek 30	Gameweek 34
May	Gameweek 35	Gameweek 38
Any transfer point deductions in the Gameweek before a phase starts won't be deducted from the phase score. For example, any transfers made in Gameweek 6 (preparing for Gameweek 7) won't be deducted from your October score.

Head-to-Head Scoring
In a league with Head-to-Head scoring, every team plays a match against another team in the league each Gameweek. The match result is based on the Gameweek score of each team minus any transfer points spent preparing for the Gameweek.

3 points are awarded for a win and 1 point for a draw, teams are then ranked on points earned in Head-to-Head matches.

Head-to-Head fixtures are generated at the start of the league's first Gameweek. Once these fixtures have been generated the league is locked and teams will not be able to join or leave.

If a Head-to-Head league has an odd number of teams then an average team will join the league to ensure each team has a fixture every Gameweek. This team will always score the Gameweek average.

In the event of a tie between teams, the team who has most game points will be positioned higher.

Head-to-Head Knock-out stage
Optionally, a Head-to-Head league may end with a knock-out stage over up to 3 Gameweeks with the league winner decided by a match in the final Gameweek. The automatically entered average team will not enter the knock-out stage, their place being taken by the next placed team.

In the event of a tie between teams in a Head-to-Head knock-out match, the following tie-breaks will be used:

Most goals scored in the Gameweek
Fewest goals conceded in the Gameweek
Virtual coin toss

